Supervised learning systems based
on deep neural networks,
are now the go-to solution
for image classification,
speech recognition, and
natural language processing.
Part of the reason is due to
the dramatic increases in
training data and
affordable computation.
But to really take advantage of
these increases in
data and computation,
improvements and
training were needed.
A couple of simple
optimization strategies,
made it much easier to train
networks and helped
accelerate adoption.
We'll talk about these today.
By the end of this video,
you will be able to understand
the importance of
initialization for
neural networks and describe
optimization techniques for
training neural networks.
Like many machine
learning methods,
neural networks are trained
using an iterative process.
This procedure, must have
some starting point.
The choice of
this starting point,
can play a big role in
the performance of
the neural network.
Let's look at an example
with only one weight.
On the y-axis, we will
show the loss function.
On the x-axis, we will
show values of the weight.
As you know, gradient descent,
will iteratively move the weight
towards the nearest
stationary point.
But neural network
loss functions,
are not quite so simple.
If we start in
this nearly flat region,
it can be hard to make
any progress with
gradient descent since
the gradient is near zero.
If instead we start
inside the small bowl,
then we can quickly
find the local optima.
But wouldn't it be nice if it
could started somewhere here,
where we can quickly find
an even better optimal point?
One simple yet effective
initialization strategy,
is to randomly sample
the initial weights
from a normal distribution
with small variance.
This way, each neuron has
a different output from
other neurons within its layer.
This provides a more diverse set
of potential features.
By keeping the variants small,
we ensure that the output
of each neuron
is within the same range
as its neighbors.
One downside to
this strategy is that,
as we add more
inputs to a neuron,
the variance of the output grows.
We can get around this issue by
scaling the variance
of the weights,
by one over the square root
of the number of inputs.
After we have picked the
starting point for our network,
we start incrementally
making small improvements to
the weights using stochastic
gradient descent steps.
Another way to improve training,
is to consider a more
sophisticated update mechanisms.
Two common strategies, are
to use the heavy-ball method
also called momentum and
vector step size adaptation.
Let's talk about momentum first.
Imagine, this is
the trajectory of
a two-dimensional wave vector
under stochastic
gradient descent.
Here's the stochastic
gradient descent update rule
and here's the update
modified to include momentum.
Notice, it is similar to
the regular stochastic
gradient descent update
plus an extra term
called the momentum
M. The momentum term
summarizes the history of
the gradients using
a decaying sum
of gradients with
decay rate Lambda.
If recent gradients have all
been in similar directions,
then we gained momentum
in that direction.
This means, we make
a large step in that direction.
If recent updates have
conflicting directions,
then it kills the momentum.
The momentum term will
have little impact on
the update and we will make
a regular gradient descent step.
Momentum provably
accelerates learning,
meaning it gets to
a stationary point more quickly.
Another potential
improvement is to use
a separate step size for
each weight in the network.
So far, we have only
talked about a global
scalar step size.
This is well-known to be
problematic because
this can result in
updates that are too big for
some weights and too
small for other weights.
Adapting the step sizes
for each weight,
based on statistics about
the learning process
in practice results in
much better performance.
Now, how does the update change?
The change is very simple.
Instead of updating
with a scalar Alpha,
there's a vector of
step sizes indexed by
t to indicate that it can
change on each time-step.
Each dimension of the gradient,
is scaled by its
corresponding step size
instead of the global step size.
There are a variety of methods to
adapt a vector of step sizes.
You'll get to implement
one in your assignment.
That's it for this video.
Today, we discussed ways to
improve the training
of neural networks.
Specifically,
we discussed one strategy for
initializing the weights in
a neural network and how to
accelerate learning
using momentum
and step size adaptation.
Now, you're all set to implement
a TD agent with a neural
network. Hope you have fun.